# 202405-202406
1. **A Decade’s Battle on Dataset Bias: Are We There Yet**, arxiv Mar 2024
   * What: can neural network classify the dataset only based on images?
   * How:
     * Experiment with six datasets gets 69.2% acc
     * Experiments with three datasets get 84.7% acc
     * Larger models, better augmentations can lead to better performance
     * Using dataset classification as pretrain and linear probe for Imagenet1K get 30% acc vs random 6.7
     * Pseudo-dataset classification experiments demonstrate that the model can achieve 100% training acc, but 33.5 % validation acc --- Memorization vs generalization
2. **A comprehensive and FAIR comparison between MLP and KAN representations for differential equations and operator networks**, arxiv May 2024
   * What: explore whether KAN is comparable with MLP?
   * How: conduct experiments with several KAN+PINN variants with several scientific simulation datasets
     * the original KANs based on the Bsplines parameterization lack accuracy and efficiency
     * modified versions based on low-order orthogonal polynomials have comparable performance
       * using the radial basis functions (RBFs) with Gaussian kernels to approximates the 3-order B-spline basis
       * Wavelet KANs
       * Jacobi KANs: the chefshev KANs with tanh activation function performs good
3. **KAN: Kolmogorov-Arnold Networks**, arXiv Apr 2024
   * What: presents the defination and some primary experiments of KAN
     * learns $N_in \times N_out$ activation functions
     * the activation function is normally defined by polynomial functions with weighted parameters
4. **U-KAN Makes Strong Backbone for Medical Image Segmentation and Generation**, arxiv June 2024
   * What: introduce KAN to medical image segmentation and generation
   * Why:
     * more nonlinear patterns
     * better interpretability
   * How:
     * Unet+KAN Backbone:
       * three convolution downsampling layers
       * tokenization by reshaping and flatten the features with learnable linear projections
       * KAN blocks with three layers: one KAN + one depth-wise convolutional layer + BN + ReLU
     * Generate noise for diffusion models:
       * predicting the  noise with UKAN backbone
     * Achieves better resutls with fewer parameters and flops
5. **Go With the Flow: Energy Minimising Periodic Trajectories for UVMS**, ICRA 2022
   * what: consider learning the periodic components of the dynamic ocean flow for Underwater Vehicle Manipulator Systems
6. **Marine Robots: From Laboratories to the Real Underwater Adventure**, special issue 2024
   * A2: focus on the chal- lenges arising from disturbances caused by unknown dynamics and environmen- tal factors
   * A5: unveils new possibilities for underwater legged robots, enabling them to traverse diverse and unknown underwater terrains
   * A8: This robot is able to perceive its surroundings, plan a mission, and dynamically adapt to contingencies and opportunities, all without human intervention - used for the oil and gas community
   * Sea survey
   * 风/流➕vision对于无人机和潜航器的路径规划很key；温度对于寻找海底热源
7. PhyGrasp: Generalizing Robotic Grasping with Physics-informed Large Multimodal Models, arxiv Feb 2024
8. MMMU: A Massive Multi-discipline Multimodal Understanding and Reasoning Benchmark for Expert AGI, CVPR 2024 Oral
9. Generative Camera Dolly: Extreme Monocular Dynamic Novel View Synthesis, arxiv May 2024
10. **Aurora: A Foundation Model of the Atmosphere**, arxiv 2024 - Microsoft
   * What
   * Why
   * How:
   * Notes:
11. On the Foundations of Earth and Climate Foundation Models, arxiv May 2024 by TUM
    * What
12. AI Foundation Models for Weather and Climate: Applications, Design, and Implementation, arxiv Sep 2023
13. **ACE Metric: Advection and Convection Evaluation for Accurate Weather Forecasting**, arxiv June 2024 
14. COUPLED OCEAN-ATMOSPHERE DYNAMICS IN A MACHINE LEARNING EARTH SYSTEM MODEL, arxiv June 2024
15. MetaEarth: A Generative Foundation Model for Global-scale Remote Sensing Image Generation, arxiv May 2024 
16. GEO-Bench: Toward Foundation Models for Earth Monitoring, arxiv Dec 2023 
17. Can Multimodal Large Language Models Understand Spatial Relations
18. **Generating, Reconstructing, and Representing Discrete and Continuous Data: Generalized Diffusion with Learnable Encoding-Decoding**, ICML 2024
19. **Eyes Wide Shut? Exploring the Visual Shortcomings of Multimodal LLMs**, CVPR 2024
20. **Humanoid Locomotion as Next token Prediction**
21. **Foundation Models for Generalist Geospatial Artificial Intelligence**, arxiv 2023 - NASA
22. **On the Foundations of Earth and Climate Foundation Models**, arxiv 2024 - TUM
    * What
    * Why
    * How
    * Notes: Zhitong Xiong has many earth foundation model works
23. **Data Assimilation with Machine Learning Surrogate Models: A Case Study with FourCastNet**, arxiv 2024
24. **Big data in Earth Science: Emerging Practice and Promise**, Science 2024
25. **SpeechGPT: Empowering Large Language Models with Intrinsic Cross-Modal Conversational Abilities**, EMNLP 2023
26. **DO WE REALLY NEED COMPLICATED MODEL ARCHI-TECTURES FOR TEMPORAL NETWORKS**, ICLR 2023 top 5%
27. **SGFormer: Simplifying and Empowering Transformers for Large-Graph Representations**, NeurIPS 2024
    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes
28. **UniTS: Building a Unified Time Series Model**, 

    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes
29. **Unified Training of Universal Time Series Forecasting Transformers**
    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes:
30. **TimeGPT-1**, 

    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes
31. **A decoder-only foundation model for time-series forecasting**, 

    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes
32. **MOMENT: A Family of Open Time-series Foundation Models**, 

    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes
33. **Lag-Llama: Towards Foundation Models for Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting**, 

    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes
34. **WorldDreamer: Towards General World Models for Video Generation via Predicting Masked Tokens**, 

    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes
35. **ViTs for SITS: Vision Transformers for Satellite Image Time Series**, 

    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes
36. **Timer: Transformers for Time Series Analysis at Scale**, 

    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes
37. **xxx**, 

    * What:
    * Why:
    * How:
    * Notes